README.md, before:

# Blockstream docs

## Notes on using Jeykll on Github Pages

The [website](https://blockstream.github.io/docs) uses [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) to serve its content using the files within this repository.

Github Pages itself uses [Jeykyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to generate static website content from simple "markdown" formatted files. Making changes to pages on the blockstream.github.io/docs site is as easy as editing one of this repository's ".md" files. Accepted changes will be automatically built and served to the website. 

## How to run this site locally and make changes to it

You can run a local copy of the Blockstream Docs site and test any changes you make before making a pull request. Following the steps below will allow you to set up and run a local copy of the site and pulls its theme files from the Blockstream docs theme repository so you can see exactly how your changes look.

### If you have not run the site locally before...

Install ruby, ruby-dev and build-essential packages:

~~~~
sudo apt-get install ruby ruby-dev build-essential
~~~~

Install the Jekyll and bundler gems:

~~~~
sudo gem install jekyll bundler
~~~~

Fork the https://github.com/Blockstream/docs repository to your own GitHub account

Clone your fork to your local machine using a command such as:

~~~~
git clone https://github.com/yourgithubaccountname/docs.git
~~~~

Move into the repository directory:

~~~~
cd docs
~~~~

Move into the docs directory:

~~~~
cd docs
~~~~


Install the dependencies required by the website's Gemfile:

~~~~
bundle install
~~~~

### Once that is done you can just follow these steps every time you want to test your changes...

Build the site and start the local server:

~~~~
bundle exec jekyll serve 
~~~~

View the site by browsing to: http://127.0.0.1:4000

Note: For some changes to take effect you may need to restart the server. Use Ctrl+c to stop the server and start it again using the "bundle exec jekyll serve" command.

### To propose changes to Blockstream Docs

Check the status of what files you have changed:

~~~~
git status
~~~~

Add the files you want to commit (or use --all to add them all):

~~~~
git add --all
~~~~

Commit:

~~~~
git commit -m "Your commit message here"
~~~~

Push to your forked repository:

~~~~
git push
~~~~

Within GitHub you can now propose a Pull Request to the Blockstream/docs repository.

Commit message:

Local build compatibility, minor text changes

README.md, after:

# Blockstream Docs

The Blockstream Docs [website](https://blockstream.github.io/docs) uses [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) to serve the files within this repository as static web pages.

Github Pages uses [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to generate static website content from simple "markdown" formatted files. Making changes to pages on the Blockstream Docs site is as easy as editing one of the ".md" files within this repository. Accepted changes will be automatically built and served through the Blockstream Docs website. 


## How to run the site locally and propose changes

You can run a local copy of the Blockstream Docs site and test any changes you make before making a pull request. Following the steps below will allow you to set up and run a local copy of the site and will pull its theme files from the Blockstream docs theme repository, so you can see exactly how your changes will look once live.


### If you have not run the site locally before...

Install the Jekyll Ruby Gem and dependancies by following the [instructions](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/) on the Jekyll website.

Fork the https://github.com/Blockstream/docs repository to your own GitHub account

Clone your fork to your local machine:

~~~~
git clone https://github.com/<yourgithubaccountname>/docs.git
~~~~

Move into the repository directory:

~~~~
cd docs
~~~~

Move into the docs directory:

~~~~
cd docs
~~~~

Install the dependencies required by the website's Gemfile:

~~~~
bundle install
~~~~


### If you have already set up Jekyll using the instructions above...

Follow the steps below each time you want to test your changes.

Build the site and start the local server:

~~~~
bundle exec jekyll serve 
~~~~

View the site by browsing to: http://127.0.0.1:4000

Note: For some changes to take effect, you may need to restart the server. Use Ctrl+c to stop the server and start it again using the "bundle exec jekyll serve" command.


### To propose changes to Blockstream Docs

Check the status of what files you have changed:

~~~~
git status
~~~~

Add the files you want to commit (or use --all to add them all):

~~~~
git add --all
~~~~

Commit:

~~~~
git commit -m "Your commit message here"
~~~~

Push to your forked repository:

~~~~
git push
~~~~

Within GitHub you can now make a Pull Request to the Blockstream/docs repository.
